Title: Indonesian and French meeting in Paris about XiVO
Date: 2015-03-16 19:09
Author: vdagrain
Category: XiVO Community
Slug: indonesian-and-french-meeting-in-paris-about-xivo
Status: published

-   **Can you present us your company and in what industry you work
    within Indonesia ?**

- "KMP is an independent company located in Indonesia offering IT and
Telecommunication based services and solutions.. We specialize in
customized business solutions. KMP helps clients plan, build and support
their IT and Telecomunication infrastructures. KMP combines expertise
from IT and Telco networking, operating environments, and data storage
protection technologies.- With our advanced skills in consulting,
integration and managed services, we offer our customers a unique
combination of solutions and business strength. We have experience in
the following sectors: government, office buildings, telecom operators,
factory and mining industries".

-   **How did you learn about XiVO and open source telephony systems?**

- "We discovered [XiVO](http://www.xivo.io/) when we visited an
exhibition in Hong-Kong and
[Singapore](http://www.avencall.com/en/avencall-at-the-communicasia-show-2013-in-singapore).
After gathering information about what products XiVO offered, we held
discussions back in Indonesia that helped analyze the strengths and
weaknesses of XiVO and the future of open source technologies. After
contacting their management, we finally got a chance to work with XiVO.
Today XiVO has a good user base in Indonesia. We have installed XiVO in
our biggest telecomunication company, in government mining offices, in
government banking offices and other kinds of office buildings.

- It was a great experience for us to visit the IT exhibition in Paris,
we met with [XiVO](http://www.xivo.io/) personnel. Some XiVO partners
over there showed us some interesting features such as an integration
between XiVO and Bluemind. Juned, Wolter and I are tasked with selling
XiVO solutions and making sure the usage of XiVO grows within Indonesia
year by year. Wolter and I have are responsible for sales and marketing.
Juned is more concerned with technical support".

![IndonesianInParis-XiVO-March2015-RS.jpg](/public/IndonesianInParis-XiVO-March2015-RS.jpg "IndonesianInParis-XiVO-March2015-RS.jpg, march. 2015")Picture:
meeting in Paris - 02.2015

-   **How did you become interested in telephony solutions and XiVO?**

- "[XiVO](http://www.xivo.io/) is an Open Source product with a very
good support. They have an R&D team used to further develop features and
meet customer requirements. They also have success stories in Europe
with many customers and a good user base.- XiVO provides an
[up-to-date](http://xivo.readthedocs.org/en/stable/) system by releasing
new versions which helps develop more and more features. This is good
for meeting customer requirements and keeping client satisfaction".

-   **According to you, what trends will we see during 2015 in the world
    of Unified Communication and Open Source?**

- "The need for unified communications will increase year by year
because it will always be necessary to fulfilling other professional
needs. BYOD (Bring your own device) will become a trend among
professionals and U.C can fill this trend.- Open Source technologies is
one of the best alternatives available to fullfill needs in U.C thanks
to its flexibility and growing feature set available at a lower cost.-
We usually visit the asian communication exhibition in Singapore every
year (usually during June or July) and the [Indonesia call ICT
exhibition](http://www.ictindo.com). It occurs every 2 years and the
next will be held in Jakarta during 2016.

- Currently, we are very interested by the possibilities around instant
messaging and web collaboration that can be delivered using open source
solutions, especially with a XiVO server".

Creative Commons Share-Alike (CC-SA) v3.0 - 03.2015

</p>

