Title: Quebec International and XiVO, to develop IT
Date: 2015-02-23 21:19
Author: vdagrain
Slug: quebec-international-and-xivo-to-develop-it
Status: draft

February 20, 2015, Québec International and partners such as
Investissement Québec and RCGT welcomed 30 participants for a lunch
conference. 2 members of the team XIVO were present.

**Linda Bergeron Quebec International presented: how to promote the
growth of international subsidiaries?**Most companies identify IQ
activites but underestimate the interest of economic development. The
speaker shows the localisation about their team, by continents.
Following questions from the participants, the speaker explained some IQ
correspondents was in North-America Offices (for South America) and
Europe (for Africa). Come others are in an embassies like in Asia. The
presentation continues by pointing that the creation of subsidiaries is
a source of prosperity due to technological transfers. IQ advices are
taken into account by the government (ex:Davos Forum).

**Annie Lessard and Pierre Larouche of RCGT firm Raymont Chabot Grant
Tornton, presented: how to manage a growth strategy in Quebec?**Annie
Lessard exhibits examples of businesses that close and the challenges
they face in anticipation of weak signals: like making competitive
intelligence or consolidate. In the room, participants are reactive
about examples with "business case" and access to economic analyzes to
"act rather than submit". A study by IQ highlighted that 86% of
companies take less than 1H by week to discuss strategy. After following
IQ councils, businesses are invested in a better strategic approach.

Pierre Larouche emphasizes that innovation and boldness is an investment
more considered by some companies rather than looking for tax benefits.
The market demands to stand out and why there are different methods such
as integrated post-graduate students. In the SAS (Software as a
Service), cloud brings an innovation in access management given but also
in the maintenance of the solution.

Faced with some policy makers who do not want to take risks because
"innovation" returns to the uncertainty, it is possible to study the
projects to propose concrete solutions.

**Martine Lessard Quebec International presented how to recruit
internationally?**

Deploy chains, use a post-graduate student or accompany a company in its
hiring an employee internationally and brought his family. For talent,
we must rely on a strong network of partners in order to advance various
issues: forecast on labor needs, immigration, etc. 1 Company 2 will
launch in the following recruitment meetings organized by IQ.

The team presents XiVO thank the organizers for their hospitality and
exchanges!

</p>

